there was a sense
of you know we have the best hospital
system
in the world and this
culture of you know we got it we are the
bomb
and we're gonna take this down there's
no virus that can conquer us
but i knew that the science
was against us and that it was gonna be
an uphill battle delays in testing
meant that the virus had spread
undetected throughout
february when i was at the cdc
and i was having a conversation with a
colleague
in the elevator and in one instance i
think
actually said well if if there is
community transmission going on
i pushed back and said well what do you
mean if
it's obvious that there's community
transmission
now and the reply was well i know
that's true but we haven't proven that
yet we don't
know and of course we didn't know
because we didn't
have testing the rules for whether you
qualified for a test
were still that you had to have some
connection
to traveling in china
at that point it seemed a little bit
outdated
our model said that we would have
anywhere
from 20 to 60 000 deaths
the impending tsunami just really became
more
and more evident it felt like
if this data doesn't compel you to
act then all i have left is to set my
hair on fire
state and local officials have the power
to issue lockdowns
and close schools in that war room
i remember distinctly saying what i'm
asking you to do
is gonna sound too dramatic
and too early to do but when we get to
the point
that we are trying to avoid we're all
going to realize that we acted too late
we could see tens of thousands of people
die if we don't act quickly
and there being sort of this panic in
the room of like oh my god you can't
say that to the public because we're
going to lose their trust
and me feeling really strongly that
we needed to prepare new yorkers
emotionally
for what was coming new york new york
the worst infected city in what's now
the worst infected country
against the advice of many scientists
president trump
encouraged state governors to reopen
shortly after infection rates began to
climb
the politics went so far past the
science so quickly
and so so many decisions were being made
that were
very politically driven and not science
driven that it got very
feel a little bit like you're not being
listened to that you're
you know you're just the geek in the
corner
we always anticipated
political leadership acting as rational
beings
i don't think we ever thought how
ideological
perspective would play so heavily into
how people
perceived facts and and how people
reacted
to events that that's something that was
unanticipated in the end
the delay in closing the school slowing
down the way in which
new yorkers interacted certainly caused
thousands of lives you know that's
something that i'm just gonna have to
live with for the rest of my life that
we're all gonna have to live with and
my hope is that moving forward
we have leaders in place
who will look at this event and have
more
courage to act quickly
you